# First Step of rust

Rust is an open-source, systems programming language that helps you write faster, more reliable software. Rust offers
control over low-level details like memory usage in combination with high-level concepts like iteration and interfaces.
These features reduce the hassle traditionally associated with low-level languages like C and C++.

## Advantages

- **Type safe:** The compiler assures that no operation will be applied to a variable of a wrong type.
- **Memory safe:** Rust pointers (known as *references*) always refer to valid memory.
- **Data race-free:** Rust's borrow checker guarantees thread-safety by ensuring that multiple parts of a program can't
  mutate the same value at the same time.
- **Zero cost abstractions:** Rust allows the use of high-level concepts, like iteration, interfaces, and functional
  programming, with minimal to no performance costs. The abstractions perform as well, as if you wrote the underlying
  code by hand.
- **Minimal runtime:** Rust has a very minimal and optional runtime. The language also has no garbage collector to
  manage memory efficiently. In this way Rust is most similar to languages like C and C++.
- **Targets bare-metal:** Rust can target embedded and "bare metal" programming, making it suitable to write an
  operating system kernel or device drivers.

## Installation

Please check [rustup.rs](https://rustup.rs)

## Cargo

While the rustc compiler is fine for simple programs, almost no projects use the Rust compiler directly. Instead they
use Rust's build tool and dependency manager, Cargo.

- Create new project templates with the `cargo new` command.
- Build a project with the `cargo build` command.
- Build and run a project with the `cargo run` command.
- Test a project with the `cargo test` command.
- Check project types with the `cargo check` command.
- Build documentation for a project with the `cargo doc` command.
- Publish a library to crates.io with the `cargo publish` command.

## Rust Modules

- crates
- modules
- paths

## Rust crates and libraries

- std
    - std::collections
    - std::env
    - std::fmt
    - std::fs
    - std::io
    - std::path
- structopt
- chrono
- regex
- serde
